Responsibility and Role of the IT Program 
The IT Program determines and conceptually plans the best ways for technology to meet the goals of the program and the Trek Tech Corporation. The IT Program will install, maintain, and upgrade systems as necessary. The IT Program will be responsible for researching and developing new ways to accomplish tasks in a productive and timely manner. The IT Program’s ability to properly support new devices and applications often require additional resources that may take time to acquire and install. The IT Program will balance the load of services across resources as necessary. By including the IT Program in preliminary discussions, programs can start preparations to support and keep projects flowing smoothly.  The IT Program is responsible for the following functions:

a. PBX's & Voice Mail Systems

b. Internet Access & E-mail

c. Computer/Laptop Hardware

d. Program Software

e. Copiers/Fax/Scanners – All peripherals

f. Video & Audio equipment

g. Maintains network security and performance; establishes workable directory structure, network security, and disk space allocation, etc.

h. Sets up user accounts according to established policies, procedures, and limitations.

i. Tracks all problems or issues through work orders.

j. Plans new phone lines and data ports when needed.

k. Performs network maintenance, changes, and upgrades.

l. Enhances network by assessing new software and hardware products that would increase network performance and expand network services.

m. Directs the performance of regularly scheduled systems management and maintenance procedures designed to ensure the integrity of all programs by running backup procedures and diagnostic software routines. 

n. Implements disaster recovery plans; runs system backups and disaster recovery operations.

o. Develops procedural documentation or policies as needed.

p. Provides technical advice and training to Trek Tech operations staff in the operation, maintenance, and support of computer hardware and software systems.

q. Trains and updates staff with respect to security systems.

r. Prepares reports and makes recommendations to ensure the optimum efficiency of equipment and systems in accordance with departmental needs.

s. Maintains stock of expendable and non-expendable computer equipment, materials, system, application, and supplies sufficient to ensure continuous and uninterrupted operation of systems; communicates with vendors regarding purchases.

t. Maintains professional and technical knowledge by conducting research; attending seminars, education workshops, classes and conferences; reviewing professional publications; establishing agencies and related organizations. 


Software 
The IT Program will maintain all software which is located on Trek’s systems. As it pertains to software, the following procedures will be followed:

a. The IT Program will maintain a current list of standard and recommended software.

b. To ensure software is compatible and not destructive to the TTC computer systems, the IT Program will approve any and all software programs.

c. If a user is interested in software that is not on the maintained list, the user will need to complete an IT Work Order to request assistance in determining if that software is sustainable on TTC computer systems and network.

d. The IT Program will determine if software is qualified as being compatible with TTC’s system.

e. If software is not qualified as being compatible with TTC’s standard software or the TTC system, software cannot be installed on the system.

f. If a software program exceeds the specifications of the user’s computer system the user will be notified to look for alternative software or to find program funds to upgrade the system.

g. All software installed on Trek Tech Corp. computers or on the servers must have a valid license.

h. Should server-based software make a server unstable, the IT Program will be responsible for restoring any data that was stored on a server that is backed up by the IT Program’s backup server.

i. The IT Program is obligated by certain software vendors to monitor all software licenses in order to ensure compliance with the vendor’s license agreements.

j. Users may contact the IT Program to obtain additional guidance, quotes and advice on any software.

k. Types of Software used at the Trek Tech Corporation: 
i. Standard software is that software which is made available to users by Trek and maintained by the IT Program. The IT Program installs all software, and may upgrade it when new releases become available. If training is required for newly purchased software a work order must follow the request. 
ii. Departmental funded software is software that is used by one or more departments or programs that are specific to that particular program.  All departmental software must maintain a valid license for such software. 
iii. Individual funded software is approved software that a single user purchases for which they have a valid license and deems important to his or her department's success. Users must submit a work order if installation of individual funded software on their local workstation’s hard drive is needed. To demonstrate legality of the software, the user must be able to produce the original installation of diskettes/cds and license at any time. If any installed software somehow makes a computer unstable, the IT Program will remove the software and restore the local station back to the standard configuration. 



Hardware: The IT Program will maintain all hardware which is located on Trek's systems. As it pertains to hardware, the following procedures will be followed:

 	a. The IT Program will maintain a current list of standard and recommended hardware. 

b. To ensure hardware is compatible and not destructive to Trek’s computer systems, the IT Program will approve any and all hardware programs. 

c. If a user is interested in hardware that is not on the maintained list, the user will need to complete an IT Work Order requesting assistance in determining if that software is sustainable on the TTC computer systems and network.

 	d. The IT program will determine if hardware is qualified as being compatible with TTC’s systems. 

e. If hardware is not qualified as being compatible with the TTC’s standard software or the TTC systems, it will not be installed. 

f. The IT Program will be responsible for all hardware that is associated with the TTC Servers. 

g. Types of common hardware used at the Trek Tech Corporation 
i. Fully supported hardware are those hardware devices which are maintained by the IT Program. The IT Program recommends installs and tests for compatibility of such hardware with all supported environments, and may upgrade hardware when new drivers are released or become available. 

Prohibited hardware and software 
The IT Program will monitor the software and hardware installations within the TTC systems, the following are prohibited hardware and software:
 a. Hardware or software that makes any portion of the network unstable. 

b. Hardware or software that is used for illegal purposes 

c. Hardware of software which there are licensing issues which legally prohibit its use. 

d. Hardware or software may also be prohibited due to its tendency to destabilize or compromise the security of core network services.

In all cases, any hardware or software that makes any portion of the network unstable will be immediately removed from the network and the system will be restored to its standard configuration 

Portable Devices 
The users of portable devices are responsible for such devices and will be held accountable for the care of such devices.  The term “portable device” includes but is not limited to the following:

a) Laptops 
b) External hard disk drives 
c) USB data devices Page 4 of 9 v.2013.1 
d) Portable music players 
e) Storage media – CD/DVD/SD/mini SD/memory sticks 
f) iPads 
g) Mobile phones – basic and smartphones 
h) Data access points – MiFi cards 

These devices should be stored properly while not in use and shall have approved anti-virus software installed and up-to-date (if applicable).  All users are required to have proper authorization of a portable device from their supervisor prior to being issued such device.  The IT Program will maintain a list of all issued devices and will monitor the user’s activity of such devices.
